# ***Libframe tool***

## Description

This tool was developed to identify and translate protein sequences cloned in frame with the expression contruct in the pYD1 expression plasmid for Yeast Surface Display. The construct begins with the Aga2p protein and the Xpress tag. The script parses a fastq file generated by a DNA sequencing method and searches for the tag sequence. It begins translating any DNA sequence after the tag until a stop codon is found. The output file indicates the length of the peptides and the aminoacid sequence.

Libframe was developed in python and is used for pYD1. If using a different expression system, the code can be modified to replace the Xpress tag sequence by any sequence that should be in-frame with the cloned fragments. 

## Running requirements

To run this script you'll need to import biopython modules Bio and Bio.Seq and the re module for regular expression operations.

## Running libframe.py

For execution it takes three parameters: 
1) path to fastq file
2) path to output file (.txt)
3) the minimum length of a peptide. 
This last parameter depends on the expression system. In the case of pYD1 The Xpress tag has 8 aa (24 bases), plus linker (6 bases, 2 aa), and restriction site (Bam HI, 6 bases, 2 aa) resulting in 12 aa sequence DLYDDDDKVPGS. Hence, we recommend the minimum value of 13 for a peptide.


### Example run:

`python3 ./libframe.py path/to/fastq/file/.fastq path/to/output/file/.txt 13`

Example of results:
Protein length is 127 aa and sequence is: DLYDDDDKVPGSTSHAPGRHGGRRIRLELHLDNFKLLPQLCSSVSADGSPAVPLQPVLPGIRQMLHHSVSIKCADARVARFLWPCPYALHCALLSITSEFAAACGSTIWISVVEFCEISSTVAAARV
Protein length is 16 aa and sequence is: DLYDDDDKVPGSLCWC
Protein length is 75 aa and sequence is: DLYDDDDKVPGSFLLVLILRRLLGCLTLIRAERHNRPQQGFVRRTAGVFHPSVATKSTCVFHFCISMYGRICGLL
Protein length is 25 aa and sequence is: DLYDDDDKVPGSFVGADIAGDRAGK
Protein length is 73 aa and sequence is: DLYDDDDKVPGSFLLVLILRRLHGCLTLCLRVHTLDTKQPEYPLLGGISRAPAHKGAALGGSFSSGCLHAEEV

## Contributing

If you'd like to contribute, please fork the repository and use a feature branch. Pull requests are warmly welcome.

## Licensing
The code in this project is licensed under a CC BY-NC 4.0 license. This means you can use it with proper attribution to original authors, indicating if any modifications were done, only for non commercial applications. (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/)

## Links

If you want to see more of our work you can check out our website: https://www.cestarilab.com/
